Welcome to this section on Cloud Monitoring.
In this section, we're going to know how we can
get a better idea and a better picture
of the performance of our cloud deployments.
So the first service I want to talk about
is CloudWatch Metrics.
CloudWatch provides metrics for every service in AWS,
and a Metric is a variable to monitor.
For example, the CPUUtilization or the NetworkIn.
The metrics are going through the time,
so they will have timestamps,
and if you want to visualize all your metrics at once,
you can create a CloudWatch dashboard of metrics.
So here is an example of a very common metric
for CloudWatch which is called the Billing metric.
So this metric is only available in us-east-I,
so only in one region, and it represents the total amounts
you have spent on your AWS cloud.
So obviously, at every month end it will reset back
in to zero, but as you can see,
over time that metric goes up and then will go back to zero,
and so this month I have spent more than $100
because I am experimenting with different AWS services.
So this is one metric, but obviously,
there are a ton more metrics we can look at.
For example, for our EC2 instances,
we can look at the CPU Utilization,
which is how much we are making the CPU work
and if it makes it work a lot,
than maybe our instance is too busy
and we need to scale it up or scale it out.
The Status Check to make sure that our EC2 instance
is properly functioning, and the Network,
to see how much network is going in our instance
and out our instance.
As you can see, the RAM is not an available metric
for your EC2 instances.
These metrics you get every five minutes by default,
but you can enable a Detailed Monitoring,
which is more expensive,
to get these metrics every one minute.
Then you have EBS volumes,
which are where you store your data,
and you get information about the amount
of disk read and writes that are happening.
Then for your S3 buckets, you can get some information
around the bucket size and bytes, the number of objects,
or the number of requests done into your S3 buckets,
and the Billing metric that just shows you,
shows you the total estimated charge
for your account only in us-east-I,
but it's for your entire account.
Then the Service Limits, which is how much you have been
using a service API, or finally,
if you don't find the metric you like,
you can push your own custom metrics.
Next lets talk about CloudWatch Alarms.
So Alarms are used to trigger notifications for any metric,
and that means that once a metric goes above a threshold,
then we can have a CloudWatch Alarm action,
and these actions can be for an auto scaling group
to increase or decrease the number
of EC2 instances desired counts
effectively allowing your auto scaling group
to scale automatically.
EC2 Actions, if you want to stop, terminate, reboot,
or recover an EC2 instance,
and SNS notifications if you wanted to send a notification
into an SNS topic.
For example, you're saying, okay,
if my EC2 instance has a utilization
of over 90%, then send us an email
because we want to look at it and something's wrong.
Then you get various options for creating the alarm,
sampling, percentage, max, min, et cetera,
and you can which, you can choose the period on which
to evaluate an alarm, whether it be five minutes,
ten minutes, an hour, and then finally,
you can create what's called a billing alarm
on the CloudWatch Billing metric,
which allows you to get notified if your metric goes over,
for example, 10 or $20.
The alarm state can be OK when everything is green,
INSUFFICIENT_DATA when there's not enough data points
to figure out if it should be green or bad,
and then ALARM when it's bad.
Okay, so that's it for the overview,
now we'll see you in the next lecture
to practice using metrics and alarms.